.TH fun 1 "March 2026" "fun" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fun \- Fun language runner and REPL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fun
\fR[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIscript.fun\fR] [\fB--\fR \fIargs...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfun\fR runs programs written for the Fun virtual machine. When invoked
with a script path, it parses, compiles and executes the script. If no
script is provided and the binary was built with REPL support, \fBfun\fR
starts an interactive Read\-Eval\-Print Loop.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -i , --repl
Start the interactive REPL explicitly (if built with REPL support).
.TP
.B -v , --version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B -h , --help
Show usage information and exit.
.PP
Note: Available options may vary by build configuration. Check
\fBfun --help\fR for your binary.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FUN_LIB_DIR
Top\-priority search path for included Fun modules. Set this when running
from the source tree to point to \fI./lib\fR.
.TP
.B DEFAULT_LIB_DIR
Compiled\-in default library directory searched after \fBFUN_LIB_DIR\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B non\-zero
Error during parse, compile, or runtime.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run an installed example:
.nf
  fun /usr/share/fun/examples/hello.fun
.fi
.TP
Run from a build tree without installing (point stdlib to repo):
.nf
  FUN_LIB_DIR=./lib /path/to/build_dir/fun examples/hello.fun
.fi
.TP
Pass arguments to a script (after -- they are forwarded):
.nf
  fun myscript.fun -- arg1 arg2
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
Binary (default install)
\fI/usr/bin/fun\fR
.TP
Standard library (default install)
\fI/usr/share/fun/lib\fR
.TP
Examples (optional, default install)
\fI/usr/share/fun/examples\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfunstx\fR(1)
.br
Project documentation: \fIdocs/fun.md\fR, \fIdocs/cli.md\fR, \fIdocs/includes.md\fR
.SH AUTHORS
The Fun project authors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
\(co The Fun authors. Licensed under the project license; see the
\fILICENSE\fR file distributed with this source.
