.TH funstx 1 "March 2026" "fun" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
funstx \- Fun syntax checker and fixer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B funstx
\fR[\fB--fix\fR] \fIfile1.fun\fR [\fIfile2.fun\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfunstx\fR parses one or more \fI.fun\fR source files to verify syntax
without executing them. With \fB--fix\fR, it attempts conservative,
idempotent edits to align files with parser expectations and then
re\-checks before writing changes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --fix
Attempt safe automatic corrections before re\-checking. Only writes a file
if the fixed version parses successfully.
.SH OUTPUT
.TP
On success
Prints "\fIpath/to/file.fun\fR: OK".
.TP
On failure
Prints "\fIpath/to/file.fun\fR:line:col: syntax error: <message>".
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All provided files parsed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
At least one file failed to parse (after optional fixing).
.TP
.B 2
Incorrect usage (e.g., no files provided).
.SH AUTO\-FIX RULES
The fixer applies a small set of conservative transformations:
.IP \(bu 2
Normalize line endings: CRLF/CR \(-> LF.
.IP \(bu 2
Convert leading tabs to spaces; normalize indentation to multiples of two spaces.
.IP \(bu 2
Trim trailing spaces.
.IP \(bu 2
Ensure the file ends with a single newline.
.IP \(bu 2
Normalize type aliases: \fIsint8|sint16|sint32|sint64\fR \(-> \fIint8|int16|int32|int64\fR (word\-boundary aware).
.PP
Structural issues that require semantic changes are not auto\-fixed; if
parsing still fails, the original file is left unchanged and an error is
reported.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check a single file
.nf
  funstx examples/arrays.fun
.fi
.TP
Check and auto\-fix a file
.nf
  funstx --fix examples/arrays.fun
.fi
.TP
Bulk check and auto\-fix all examples
.nf
  find examples -type f -name '*.fun' -print0 | xargs -0 -n 50 funstx --fix
.fi
.SH BUILD AND INSTALL
Built as CMake target \fBfunstx\fR and installed alongside \fBfun\fR into
\fI/usr/bin\fR by default.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfun\fR(1)
.br
Project documentation: \fIdocs/funstx.md\fR
.SH AUTHORS
The Fun project authors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
\(co The Fun authors. Licensed under the project license; see the
\fILICENSE\fR file distributed with this source.
